[David Pomeranz singing
"Nothing's Gonna Stop Me Now"]
♪ Sometimes
the world looks perfect ♪
♪ Nothing to rearrange ♪
♪ Sometimes you just
get a feeling ♪
♪ Like you need
some kind of change ♪
♪ No matter what
the odds are this time ♪
♪ Nothing's gonna stand
in my way ♪
♪ This flame in my heart ♪
♪ Like a long lost friend ♪
♪ Gives every dark street
a light at the end ♪
♪ Standing tall ♪
♪ On the wings of my dreams ♪
♪ Rise and fall ♪
♪ Through the rain and thunder
the wind and haze ♪
♪ I'm bound for better days ♪
♪ It's my life ♪
♪ My dream ♪
♪ And nothing's gonna
stop me now ♪
[instrumental music]
What are you doing?
We‐Well, cousin, don't worry
about it. They're free.
No, No, Balki.
Those are free.
These are... $3.95?
Sorry.
Oh, n‐no.
We are not here to buy
disgusting little
cheese dogs.
You know, you're the kind of guy
supermarket owners love.
Thank you.
That was not a compliment.
You obviously don't know
the basic rules of shopping.
But, cousin, on Mypos, we don't
have rules for shopping.
Come to think of it,
we don't have rules for games.
This is America.
We have rules for everything.
It's what distinguishes
us from the...
...unrule‐y.
Cousin, will you teach me?
Well, I suppose
I could give you
a few pointers
on comparison shopping.
Well, you're going
to have to because
I don't even know where
they keep the comparison.
Balki, comparison shopping
is when you compare
the price of one item
with another.
For instance, take this rice.
Don't take the rice.
Which package
would you choose?
Well, that one
looks nice.
Very nice
and expensive.
Rule one, don't fall for
the attractive package trick.
You have to
compare prices.
Check the weight.
Find the best value.
‐ Well, where is the best value?
‐ Ah.
That's where this
little baby comes in.
This is the calculator
my father gave me
the first time
I went shopping alone.
Sometime, I'll teach
you how to use it.
Now...
One pound is $1.92.
Divided by 16 ounces,
that would be...
12 cents.
12 cents an ounce.
Alright.
Five pounds is $8.80
that would be...
11 cent.
11 cents an ounce.
Now, the next size is...
That would be
eight cents an ounce.
Therefore this
is the best value.
[grunts]
Cousin, you know,
I‐I can't help noticing
that the best value
weighed 25 pounds.
That's right,
by buying the economy size
we can save
four cents an ounce.
But, cousin we have
only eaten rice
three times
in the last year.
And that means, we won't
have to buy rice again for...
16 years.
Now, if you'll notice,
I've arranged the list
according to the four
major food groups.
Wait. Wait, cousin.
Cousin. Cousin. Cousin‐‐
Look, I'm trying to
explain the rules to you.
‐ Yes, yes, yes, but‐but‐‐
‐ Do you mind?
Do you want to learn
about shopping or not?
‐ Do you, do you?
‐ Cousin, cousin‐‐
Do you want to learn
about shopping or not?
‐ Yes, I do but‐‐
‐ Alright, Balki..
‐ Then, Balki, Balki.
‐ Cousin, cousin, cousin‐‐
Just watch and learn.
This is my shopping cart.
Learn how to shop.
Why didn't you tell me
I took the wrong cart?
Because I was busy
watching and learning.
[woman on speaker]
Tuna fish, $1.19.
Macaroni, $1.29.
Did‐did you say something?
That was the cash register.
[woman on speaker]
Peanut butter, $2.49.
Excuse me.
My cousin tell me that
this cash register is talking.
It is.
It's the latest thing
in grocery technology.
Pretty radical, huh?
[woman on speaker]
Your total is $69.25.
Thank you.
Have a nice day.
Cousin, machines that talk.
And they're so polite.
Cousin, isn't this fun?
Yes, tons.
I've got to get
some antacid.
Don't touch anything.
Ah!
How are you today?
Well, my day started out
kind of rough actually.
Cousin Larry wanted
to go shopping
but he didn't want
to take me with him.
So we had kind
of a big fight and
then we got here and...
We've had our ups
and downs, but...
When you come to think of it,
we always have our ups and downs
if you know what I'm saying.
And then over there
he let me push the cart
for about five seconds
which I liked quite a lot.
And so, I‐I'm happy,
you know.
I'm happy.
How are you today?
Fine.
[siren wailing]
I‐I didn't touch it.
I didn't touch it.
Hi, I'm Pete Zaveni,
the manager.
The manager?
I didn't touch it.
Please‐please don't
call the police.
Balki, what's going on?
Wha‐whatever he did, he's sorry.
Balki, tell them, you're sorry.
I told them, I was sorry,
but she keep throw papers at me.
It's alright, it's alright,
it's alright.
Excuse me. You haven't
done anything wrong.
As a matter of fact,
you've been chosen
by our computerized
cash register
to win our
grand opening prize.
A prize?
We won a prize, cousin. A prize.
Alright, good,
let's just get our oven mitt
or whatever we won
and get out of here.
Have we won an oven mitt?
No. You have won our
grand prize shopping spree.
Balki, did you hear that?
Well, of course, I did.
Don't be ridiculous.
You know what this means?
I have no idea.
[all cheering]
[instrumental music]
Hi, cousin.
Where have you been? I have been
waiting for you for two hours.
Oh, cousin, I've been
telling all of our neighbors
about the free
shopping spree.
I'm so excited about all the fun
we're going to have tomorrow
that I don't think I'm going to
be able to sleep a wink tonight.
I don't know how
I'm going to do it.
Maybe I'll just count sheep.
One...
Where do I come up
with them?
Balki, this is no time
to fool around.
Cousin, you know,
you're right?
This is a time
to be serious.
Tomorrow is the time
to fool around.
‐ Dai, dai, dai.
‐ Balki, Balki, get back here.
This shopping spree
is serious business.
Now... I have a plan.
Cousin, why is it that
every time we have
a chance to have fun,
you have to have a plan?
Balki, I don't think
you understand
what kind of opportunity
this shopping spree is.
Oh, but I do,
it's an opportunity
for you to have a plan.
Well, excuse me
for being organized.
What did you think
we would do tomorrow?
Well, do you know
what I thought?
I thought we would run
around the supermarket
and every time
we see something we like
we throw in the cart it.
Oh‐oh!
Just run around
the supermarket
and throw in
the cart things.
Balki, do you know what
we would wind up with?
800 pounds of ding dongs.
Oh, cousin.
That is not fair
and that is not true
and that is not right.
Because I would also
like to pick up
some of those
cheese franks
and some of those potato chips
that taste like tacos.
Alright. Alright.
And some after dinner mints.
Which you..
‐ Yes.
‐ As you know, we're all out.
Alright, alright,
fine, good, good, good.
That is one way to go.
Let us call that plan Z.
Now, let us listen to my plan
which we will call plan A.
Now, I have made a diagram
of the supermarket
and labeled all the sections
where we have to go.
What is‐what is
gour‐gourmet section?
The gourmet section is where
they keep the expensive foods
like caviar and escargot.
‐ Ohh.
‐ Mmm, mmm.
‐ Alright.
‐ What are they?
Caviar and escargot?
Fish eggs and snails.
They are considered delicacies.
Well, on‐on Mypos,
they're considered fertilizer.
I don't want to
eat that stuff.
You can just count me
out and down in Beverly Hills.
Balki, you don't understand.
We are not going
to eat the food.
Well, silly me.
Why would I think
we would eat the food?
This morning I must have got up
on the wrong side of my brain.
If I could just finish?
I stopped by Chez Robert.
And I talked to the chef.
He'll buy everything we get.
We'll sell him the food,
take the money
and buy this.
A living bra.
No. No. This.
An air conditioner.
Oh, cousin
we don't need
an air conditioner.
Balki, have you forgotten
last summer?
Well, of course, I haven't.
Don't be ridiculous.
It was my first
summer in America.
I was drinking in
the sights and sounds
of a new country.
I was learning
the difference
between beta and VHS.
The weather.
The heat.
Do you remember
the heat?
Well, it wasn't
the heat so much.
‐ It was really the humidity.
‐ Oh, God!
You put on a shirt
5 o'clock
in the afternoon
it's wringing wet‐‐
Balki. Balki. Balki.
The point
that I am so desperately
trying to make here
is that we...
‐ The air conditioner?
‐ Yes! Yes!
Yes, the air conditioner.
Balki, look, look, look.
This air conditioner
could cool off
the whole apartment
for the summer.
Especially your room, hmm?
‐ Balki.
‐ My room?
Yes.
Think about it.
Well, maybe
it wouldn't hurt
to give your plan
a little listen.
Yes, thank you.
Thank you. Okay.
Look, now..
We will have one cart
and three minutes
to get as much as we can.
That means,
we'll have to maximize
our value per cubic foot
of cart space.
Now, the rules say
we cannot use any baggage
but it says
nothing about pockets.
So, in the event
we run out of cart space
we will be wearing special
outfits with lots of pockets.
Well, I‐I had a whole outfit
picked out you know..
Well, I‐I‐I'll tell you what,
why don't you just
wear that outfit at some
other shopping spree, okay?
Alright, now, we will hit
the meat department
and go straight
to the expensive cuts.
No ground beef.
I repeat, no hamburger.
Then we'll swing
by the produce section.
The failure of the Cassava
crops has pushed
the price of those melons
right through the roof.
Then it's over
to the gourmet section.
You get the escargot,
I'll get the caviar
if the price of
the white fish is still up
we'll clean them out.
Any questions so far?
Balki.
Does Sylvester Stallone
do his own stunts?
Mmm...
Uh, what‐what
I meant was
are there any
questions about
the shopping spree?
Ohh, oh, oh!
No, no, not a one.
Good.
Alright, let's go back
and analyze each section.
When we get to the...
‐ Cute outfits.
‐ Well, thank you.
They're part of
Cousin Larry's plan.
You know we can carry
twice our body weight.
We're about to start.
Uh, Mary Ann, do you need
anything besides the shampoo?
Oh, no, thanks. I think
I'm fine on conditioner.
Well, Larry,
do you think you'll have
enough time to get
my nail polish?
Nail polish?
Cousin, I told the girls
we'll get them a few things.
Super.
Uh, Balki, could I speak to
you for just a moment?
Excuse us.
What are you doing?
Well, I thought
it would be nice
to get some things
for our neighbors.
We can't do that!
But Mrs. Schlegelmitz
needs some salami.
Balki, we only have
three minutes
to get everything
on our list.
But cousin, I promised.
Well, well,
you shouldn't have.
Balki, this is going
to throw the plan way off.
Well, then we just
change the plan.
Change the plan?
We can't change the plan
right before we start.
Why do you think
they call it a plan?
Ladies and gentlemen, may I have
your attention, please?
The contest is about to begin.
Gather round.
Welcome to our
Grand Opening Celebration.
I'd like to introduce you
to our shopping spree winners
Mr. Balki Bartokomous.
Y‐a‐a‐ay.
[Pete]
And Mr. Larry Appleton.
Y‐a‐a‐ay.
Now, remember, boys
you will have exactly
three minutes
to cross this finish line
before the buzzer sounds,
or you lose everything.
Shoppers, take your marks.
Cousin, you know,
I‐I don't understand
why we don't we have time
to be nice to our neighbors?
I'll tell you what,
we'll throw them a dinner party.
Stick to the plan.
Ready.
Set.
Shop.
[all cheering]
Balki. Balki. Balki.
Balki, where are you going?
Well, I thought I would get
Mary Ann's shampoo before I‐‐
You can get it later.
Stick to the plan.
Roasts!
Three.
Roast one.
Roast two.
‐ Roast three.
‐ Ham.
Four.
Ham one.
Ham two.
Ham three.
‐ Ham four.
‐ Turkey!
Three, oh, God.
Turkey one.
Turkey two.
‐ Turkey three.
‐ Pheasants!
Nine. Salami!
I told Mrs. Schlegelmitz
and she said
to me she said, "Balki,
if you get a chance, baby
you gotta pick up some of that."
Because she's going to make
antipasto for her son.
Balki, forget the salami.
We've got to get
to the casabas.
Oh!
Two minutes.
But what about
Mary Ann's shampoo?
Cousin, it's right over there.
We just have to get it..
Forget the shampoo.
‐ Stop it, it's getting..
‐ We've got to get to the‐‐
Cousin, don't.
Now, listen.
Here is the shampoo.
‐ Alright. Alright.
‐ Right here.
‐ Come on, Balki, alright.
‐ Right there.
Squeeze bottle or tube?
Alright, alright. Here.
Shampoo!
Now, let's get
to the gourmet section.
Oh, wait, I see the‐the diapers
for Mrs. Fargey..
No, no, Balki, Balki, Balki.
Alright, get the diapers.
Get the diapers.
Balki, whitefish,
$19.95 a pound.
Looks like spawning season.
Oh.
30 seconds.
We have 30 seconds
to get the caviar.
But, cousin, if we don't
go, if we don't go right now
we'll lose everything we‐we'll
lose everything we got.
I'm not leaving
without the caviar.
Oh, but, oh, cousin..
Ten seconds.
[Pete]
Five..
Four, three.
Two, one.
[cheering]
Yeah!
[instrumental music]
Balki, we did it.
$635.
Cousin, that's enough to buy
the air conditioner
and the living bra.
And we had fun, too.
You had fun?
Well, always, cousin.
Always.
That's why they call me
"The Jerry Lewis of Mypos."
Why is it always work for me
and fun for you?
Well, I don't know,
cousin. Um...
Maybe because you spend
so much time making plans
and you don't leave
enough time to have fun.
‐ Now, that's not true.
‐ Oh, cousin.
‐ That's not true...
‐ Oh, cousin, alright.
What are you going
to do now?
You're going to make a plan
to buy an air conditioner.
But that only makes sense.
You've gotta
comparison shop.
find the best deal.
Yes, but, cousin, you're
not going to have any fun.
I'll have an
air conditioner.
Yes, but you're
not going to have any fun.
I'll have an
air conditioner.
Alright, cousin.
Do you want to have fun?
‐ Do you? Do you?
‐ Oh. Oh.
Do you want to have fun?
Yes, I do.
Alright.
Now, listen.
On Mypos, we have a saying.
[speaking in foreign language]
Need I say more?
A little more
might be helpful.
It says,
"If you let your hair down
you might be surprised
what you find in it."
You know, Balki
in your own odd way
you're right.
And you are going
to teach me
how to loosen up.
I am?
How I do that?
I'm going to give you
this money.
I want you to spend
every last penny of it.
‐ But cousin‐‐
‐ And.
I don't care how you do it.
'Cause I know
whatever you do
it'll be fun,
a little bit crazy
and totally spontaneous.
Well, cousin, I...
635 smackeroos.
You know,
I feel terrific.
I feel as if
this‐this great weight
has been lifted
from my shoulders.
Well, you know,
I do, too.
[laughing]
‐ Ahh...
Well...
So, uh, Balki, uh...
Well, what are you gonna do
with all that money?
Wait a minute, do you mean,
do I have a plan?
No, no, no.
No, that's not what I mean.
Just that if, uh,
I'm gonna learn
how to be less rigid, I wanna
know how you're gonna do it
in a very loosely structured
you know, free kind of way.
Well, I'll tell you.
Mary Ann is going to have
a birthday soon.
And I thought what I would do
is rent one of those aero planes
that spit smoke
out of the back end
and write in the sky.
And I would have it say
"Happy birthday, Mary Ann
from guess who."
Now, doesn't that
sound like fun?
[laughing]
Doesn't it?
Doesn't it sound like fun?
‐ Balki.
‐ What?
‐ Give me the money.
‐ No! No!
[instrumental music]
[theme music]
[music continues]